# What's New

Features related to compatibility with Oracle are added in OBCI V2.0.2.

## New features

* \[Compatibility with Oracle\] Supports the OCIInterval API.

* \[Compatibility with Oracle\] Supports the OCIDatetime API.

* \[Compatibility with Oracle\] Supports the OCITerminate API.

* \[Compatibility with Oracle\] Supports the OCINumber API for conversion and operation.

* Supports the configuration of log paths.

## Fixed issues

* A core dump is generated when the result obtained through value assignment by using OCIDateTimeAssign is converted by using OCIDateTimeToText.

* A core dump is generated when the input value of OCINumberDec is a floating-point number.

* The OCIStmtPrepare function fails to parse SQL statements that contain a slash (/).

* An error occurs during the execution of the OCILobWrite function if it contains Chinese characters.

## Known risks

* The API operations of OBCI are the same as those in Oracle Database. OceanBase Database uses a different architecture from Oracle Database. Therefore, some behaviors of Oracle Database are not supported in OceanBase Database. For more information about how to use the API operations, see the user manual.
  
  * `OCITransCommit()` supports only the `OCI_DEFAULT` and `OCI_TRANS_TWOPHASE` modes.
  
  * `OCITransStart()` does not support `OCI_TRANS_SEPARABLE`.

* In tightly mode of Oracle Database, if an XA transaction has multiple branches, `-6` is returned if one-phase commit is directly performed, but if xa_prepare is executed for all other branches except one branch, one-phase commit can be performed for this branch. However, OceanBase Database will still consider that this XA transaction has multiple branches and returns `-6`.

* `-2` is returned instead of `0` if the execution of OCIAttrSet(stmthp, OCI_HTYPE_STMT, 0, 0, OCI_ATTR_FETCH_ROWID, errhp)) fails.
