Install OBCI 
=================================



Environment requirements 
---------------------------------

* Hardware platform: x86_64

  

* Operating system (OS): CentOS/RedHat Linux release 7.2

  

* Compiler: GCC 4.8

  




Preparations 
---------------------

Before you develop applications with OceanBase Call Interface (OBCI), make sure that you have performed the following operations:

* Install OBCI and deploy the GCC compiler.

  

* Install OceanBase Database V2.2.72 or a later version. We recommend that you use OceanBase Database V2.2.76 or a later version to explore the complete features of OceanBase Database.

  




Installation instructions 
----------------------------------

OBCI publishes software in the form of RPM packages. The OBCI package contains the header file and library files of the OCI runtime library libobci, together with a demonstration program. After you get the RPM package, run the following command in the command line tool as the root user:

```javascript
rpm -ivh obci-<version>.x86_64.rpm
```



By default, the programs and files in the software package are installed in the following paths:

* The header file is installed in the `/u01/obclient/include` directory.

  

* The library files are installed in the `/u01/obclient/lib` directory.

  




Instructions 
---------------------

OBCI is a C language call interface provided by OceanBase. It provides complete features that are compatible with OCI. When you use a C-language application developed by using Oracle OCI, you only need to specify the OBCI library as the runtime library when you build the link, without the need to modify a single line of the source code. By default, the library files are installed in the `/u01/obclient/lib` directory. 
**Note**



If you are building a dynamic link to libobci.so, you also need to manually install the OBClient RPM package.
If you are building a static link to libobci.a, the OBClient RPM package is not required.

For details, see [Basic development procedure](5.developer-guide/1.basic-steps-of-development.md).
