# Product Introduction

## What is OBCI?

OceanBase Call Interface (OBCI) is a C language tool for interface calls in OceanBase Database. It provides features that are fully compatible with Oracle Call Interface (OCI).

OCI is an application development tool and an API provided by Oracle. You can use it to access Oracle database servers to control the execution of various SQL statements and create applications. OCI supports all SQL data definition, data manipulation, query, and transaction management operations. It also supports the datatypes, API calls, syntax, and semantics of C and C++ languages. It provides a group of interface subroutines, also known as functions, that have accesses to Oracle Database. OBCI is an Oracle-compatible interface that is developed based on interface standards of OCI considering features of OceanBase Database.

## Features

OBCI enables you to use C language to manipulate data in OceanBase Database. It provides standard database access functions and indexes in the form of dynamic-link libraries (the OCI libraries). Applications can use these functions by connecting to these libraries. OBCI provides the following main features:

1. The API of OBCI supports the development of scalable and multi-threaded applications.

2. OBCI supports SQL access functions that enable you to manage database access, process SQL statements, and manipulate objects retrieved from OceanBase Database servers.

3. OBCI supports data type mapping and function manipulation that enable you to manipulate OceanBase data type attributes.

4. OBCI supports data loading functions that enable you to directly load data into the database without using SQL statements.

5. OBCI supports external procedure functions. You can specify callback functions in C language in a PL/SQL body.
