# Install OBCI

## Prerequisites

### Environment requirements

* Hardware: x86_64ã€aarch64

* Operating system: CentOS/Red Hat Linux Release 7.2

* Compiler: GCC 4.8

### Preparation for use

* OceanBase Database: V2.2.76 or later. We recommend that you use OceanBase Database V3.2 or later. Otherwise, you cannot use all features of OceanBase Call Interface (OBCI).

* OceanBase Database Proxy (ODP, or OBProxy): V1.8.7 or later.

* libobclient V2.1.1 or later.

* Install the Oracle driver file oracle-instantclient. OBCI must depend on Oracle header files since OBCI V2.0.4.

* OBCI is installed, and the GCC compiler is deployed.

> **Note**
>
> * We recommend that you use OBServer and OBProxy of the latest version. Otherwise, you cannot use all features of OBCI.

## Installation instructions

OBCI publishes software in the form of RedHat Package Manager (RPM) packages. An OBCI package contains the header file and library files of the OCI runtime library libobci, together with a sample program.

After you obtain the RPM package, run the following command in the command-line tool as the root user:

```bash
rpm -ivh obci-<version>.x86_64.rpm
```

By default, the programs and files in the software package are installed in the following paths:

* The header file is installed in the `/u01/obclient/include` path.

* The library files are installed in the `/u01/obclient/lib` path.

> **Note**
>
> In OBCI V2.0.4 and later versions, the RPM package does not contain the `/u01/obclient/include` folder. Therefore, OBCI must depend on the Oracle header files, such as `/usr/include/oracle/11.2/client64/`.

## Usage notes

OBCI is a C language call interface provided by OceanBase. It provides complete features that are compatible with OCI.

If you want to use a C application written by using Oracle OCI, you need only to specify the OBCI library as the runtime library when you perform linking. By default, library files are installed in the `/u01/obclient/lib` path.

> **Note**
>
> If you are creating a dynamic link to libobci.so, you also need to manually install the OBClient RPM package. If you are creating a static link to libobci.a, the OBClient RPM package is not required.

For more information about linking, see [Basic development procedure](6.developer-guide/1.basic-steps-of-development.md).
